Intro:

I started my carreer as a middleware engineer supporting mainly websphere 
& IHS stack. 
I was mainly repsonsible for installing, providions the stack on on-prem.
Later I got an oppurtunity to role out devops tools within our estate.
Our prime agenda was to make developer as much self service as they can, 
so that they don't rely on operations team for build & deploy.
I was heavily ivolved in getting all the tools integrated within jenkins pipeline.
We use jenkins as our orchestration tool for continuous integration and continuous 
deployment.
Integrated all the tools right from version control, code security tools 
and deployment tools.
Later got opportunity to migrate our on-prem workloads to AWS 
(started of with tier-2 app intiatially)
did a kind of lift and shift approach and migrated on to EC2, 
later containarized the app and migrated to EKS.
currently responsible to provision the infrstructure using terraform 
when migrating to cloud.


current project:
currently working on migrating workloads that are on on-prem to AWS on to EKS clusters
we use Jenkins for orchestration process and we provision all the resources(EKS
cluster, IAM, Terraform)
we use Jenkins to provision resources and also we use helm charts to deploy any app
deployments to EKS cluster.
I am also involved in writing dockerfile for creating Images and push it to ECR 
and work closely with developer in writing dockerfile.


Ansible- it is a configuration management tool, we should follow this inorder to
keep track of all updates that are going into the system over a period of time.
it can loop with the roll base as well
Ansible is a combination of multiple pieces working together to become an 
automation tool. Mainly there are modules. playbooks and plugins.
Modules are small codes that will get executed.

Jenkins:
Jenkins is an open-source automation tool written in Java with plugins built for 
Continuous Integration purposes. Jenkins is used to build and test your software 
projects continuously making it easier for developers to integrate changes to the 
project, and making it easier for users to obtain a fresh build. It also allows you 
to continuously deliver your software by integrating with a large number of 
testing and deployment technologies.

Jenkins achieves Continuous Integration with the help of plugins. 
Plugins allow the integration of Various DevOps stages. 
If you want to integrate a particular tool, you need to install the plugins 
for that tool. For example Git, Maven 2 project, Amazon EC2, HTML publisher etc.

Advantages of Jenkins include:
It is an open-source tool with great community support.
It is easy to install.
It has 1000+ plugins to ease your work. If a plugin does not exist, you can code it 
and share it with the community.
It is free of cost.
It is built with Java and hence, it is portable to all the major platforms.


Sonarqube:
Sonar is a web based code quality analysis tool for Maven based Java projects. 
It covers a wide area of code quality check points which include: 
Architecture & Design, Complexity, Duplications, Coding Rules, Potential Bugs, 
Unit Test etc.
Sonar uses a Derby or H2 as default database. When running Sonar, 
it says that these databases may only be used for evaluation. We can change this 
default database and use our custom DB.

Advantages:
SonarQube is open source
SonarQube supports for various languages like Java, C#
SonarQube reports for duplicate code, unit testing, code coverage, 
code complexity historical
We can integrate SonarQube with build tools like ant, gradle
SonarQube has Eclipse plugin like Sonarlint
SonarQube supports external plugins like plugin for ldap

Checkmarx:
Checkmarx CxSAST is a unique source code analysis solution that provides tools 
for identifying, tracking, and repairing technical and logical flaws in the 
source code, such as security vulnerabilities, compliance issues, and business 
logic problems.
The CxSAST Jenkins plugin enables:
Automatic code scan on CxSAST server, upon each build triggered by Jenkins
Ability to run Open Source Analysis (CxOSA) from within Jenkins
Graphical Scan results summary and trends in Jenkins interface
Links from Jenkins to CxSAST and CxOSA detailed scan results and to PDF report

Qualys
Qualys is a cloud-based solution that detects vulnerabilities on all networked 
assets, including servers, network devices (e.g. routers, switches, firewalls, etc.),
peripherals (such as IP-based printers or fax machines) and workstations. 
Qualys can assess any device that has an IP address.